README.md, before:

libcuckoo
=========

High-performance Concurrent Cuckoo Hashing Library

This library provides a compact hash table that allows multiple
concurrent reader and writer threads.

Authors: Bin Fan, David G. Andersen, Manu Goyal, and Michael Kaminsky

For details about this algorithm and citations, please refer to [our paper in NSDI 2013][1].

   [1]: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~dga/papers/memc3-nsdi20013.pdf "MemC3: Compact and Concurrent Memcache with Dumber Caching and Smarter Hashing"

Requirements
================

This library has been tested on Mac OSX >= 10.8 and Ubuntu >= 12.04.

It compiles with clang++ >= 3.1 and g++ >= 4.6, however we highly
recommend the latest versions of both compilers, as they have greatly
improved support for atomic operations. Building the library requires
the autotools.

Building
==========

    $ autoreconf -fis
    $ ./configure
    $ make

Usage
==========

To build a program with the hash table, include ``cuckoohash_map.hh``
and optionally ``cuckoohash_config.h`` into your source file. Then
compile with the flags ``-I[libcuckoo_dir]/lib -pthread`` and link
with the flags ``-lpthread -L[libcuckoo_dir]/lib -lcityhash``. You
must also enable C++11 features on your compiler. If compiling a file
``test.cpp`` with g++, it might look like this:

    $ g++ -Ilibcuckoo/lib -pthread -std=c++11 -Llibcuckoo/lib -lcityhash test.cpp

With clang++ it might look like this:

    $ clang++ -Ilibcuckoo/lib -pthread -std=c++11 -stdlib=libc++ -Llibcuckoo/lib -lcityhash test.cpp

Tests
==========

The testing directory contains a number of tests and benchmarks of the
hash table, which also serve as useful examples of how to use the
table's various features. The entire test suite can be run with the
``runtest.py`` script, and individual tests, which have the suffix
".out" can be run individually as well.

Documentation
==================

The Doxygen-generated documentation is available at the
[project page](http://manugoyal.github.io/libcuckoo/).

Issue Report
============

To let us know your questions or issues, we recommend you
[report an issue](https://github.com/manugoyal/libcuckoo/issues) on
github. You can also email us at
[libcuckoo-dev@googlegroups.com](mailto:libcuckoo-dev@googlegroups.com).

Commit message:

Various improvements
Added an example.cc file to the testing directory, which demonstrates
basic usage of the table. Also moved CityHasher into another file to
decouple it from the cuckoohash_map class and improved the
documentation. Also cleaned up some of the files.

README.md, after:

libcuckoo
=========

High-performance Concurrent Cuckoo Hashing Library

This library provides a compact hash table that allows multiple
concurrent reader and writer threads.

The Doxygen-generated documentation is available at the
[project page](http://manugoyal.github.io/libcuckoo/).

Authors: Bin Fan, David G. Andersen, Manu Goyal, and Michael Kaminsky

For details about this algorithm and citations, please refer to [our paper in NSDI 2013][1].

   [1]: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~dga/papers/memc3-nsdi2013.pdf "MemC3: Compact and Concurrent Memcache with Dumber Caching and Smarter Hashing"

Requirements
================

This library has been tested on Mac OSX >= 10.8 and Ubuntu >= 12.04.

It compiles with clang++ >= 3.1 and g++ >= 4.6, however we strongly
suggest using the latest versions of both compilers, as they have
greatly improved support for atomic operations. Building the library
requires the autotools.

Building
==========

    $ autoreconf -fis
    $ ./configure
    $ make

Usage
==========

To build a program with the hash table, include ``cuckoohash_map.hh``
into your source file. If you want to use CityHash, which we
recommend, we have provided a wrapper similar to the ``std::hash``
type around it in the ``city_hasher.hh`` file. Compile with the flags
``-I[libcuckoo_dir]/lib -pthread``. If compiling with CityHash, link
with the flags ``-L[libcuckoo_dir]/lib -lcityhash``. You must also
enable C++11 features on your compiler. If compiling a file
``test.cpp`` with g++ without CityHash, it might look like this:

    $ g++ -Ilibcuckoo/lib -pthread -std=c++11 test.cpp

With clang++ and CityHash, it might look like this:

    $ clang++ -Ilibcuckoo/lib -pthread -std=c++11 -stdlib=libc++ -Llibcuckoo/lib -lcityhash test.cpp

Tests
==========

The testing directory contains a number of tests and benchmarks of the
hash table, which also serve as useful examples of how to use the
table's various features. The entire test suite can be run with the
``runtest.py`` script, and individual tests, which have the suffix
".out" can be run individually as well.

There is also an ``example.cc`` file, which contains a simple
demonstration of some of the basic features of the hash table.

Issue Report
============

To let us know your questions or issues, we recommend you
[report an issue](https://github.com/manugoyal/libcuckoo/issues) on
github. You can also email us at
[libcuckoo-dev@googlegroups.com](mailto:libcuckoo-dev@googlegroups.com).
